I think they all pretty well, I can't, I don't think any more money losers.
We had the bowling alley, of course.
We had the food services, which was the formal dining, well, the catering.
And then the fountain room, of course, which was the only one.
And the hotel.
They all paid for themselves, you think?
Oh, yeah.
And they provided money into the general.
Plus you got some student activity fees.
Yes, student activity fees.
There was a, I guess it was an MSC fee as well as, I can't remember whether the town hall was a separate fee or not.
I don't either.
I don't, there was a student fee, there might have been more than one fee there, I'm not sure.
But I, you know, very nominal.
It wasn't, you know, I wasn't going to get rich off of it.
What about some anecdotes relating to Wayne to demonstrate his personality, plus or minus?
Oh my goodness.
Do you remember where he ever got really frustrated at somebody?
Yes, but you know, naming times and places, he had to get along with so many people all the time.
What about some proposal that he made to Mr. Rutter or some other president that they found hard to accept?
You know, those, I guess, were so commonplace to single anyone out.
You know, there was a constant
dialogue about trying to get something done, you know, accomplished either physically or in service or in, you know, the whole university was pretty poor at that time.
You know, there wasn't any surplus money.
And it was a matter of, you know, who got there first, mostly.
I'm trying to,
Now, one, he and C.K.
Eston, you know, didn't see eye to eye, but yet I think he gave C.K.
a free reign because he realized that, you know, C.K.
didn't care for Wayne at all.
I got to know C.K.
years later, even after I left the MSC.
That was one relationship that worked, yet they...
you know, bannered back and forth.
There was another guy there that left here that Wayne didn't care for.
Probably shouldn't say, I can't even remember his name, it's probably just as well.
Remember any pranks, Good Bull, that the students tried to play on Wayne?
Oh...
Not much.
Wayne was pretty serious about a lot of things.
There wasn't a lot of slack for pranks there.
There's bound to have been some, but nothing jumps out.
Do you remember anything that just went confused, something that just didn't turn out the way it was supposed to, that in hindsight is...
interesting and or amusing?
Somebody that didn't make it here or somebody that was late?
We sweated out Van Clyburn, I know.
I had to send a plane after Van Clyburn one time to
He couldn't be located within hours before the concert was to start with the San Antonio Symphony.
Was that the first concert in Rudder?
Probably so.
Because Van Claiborne was the first official
Jacques Cousteau, we had him unofficially there early that week, but Van Claiborne was the first official.
Yeah, and of course that was, if it was Rudder Auditorium, and indeed it was, that was after I was associated with MSC, but I do remember the incident.
I was on Opus board, I guess, the reason I was aware of that, but Van Claiborne didn't show up.
But Wayne was always getting somebody's airplane to go after somebody.
I remember I flew somewhere with Dick Winerti and his wife.
to, I guess, over to that Methodist encampment, you know, the fish of Palestine, yeah, which incidentally was a very fine thing back then.
Ain't worth much now.
Turned it over to kids and it's a wild thing.
Oh, yeah, we went up there not a couple of summers ago.
One of those camps was named in honor of our daughter and we went up there.
And it's not like John Paul Abbott teaching you about your manners and your conduct and how to
hold a spoon or a fork or something at an inner table or something.
Because he used to, for years I went to talk about what land grant education was intended to be, which in my discussion always was it was supposed to make you real world capable.
That theory is fine.
But even better, is theory made into reality?
That's what land-grant education is supposed to emphasize.
When you began with the MSC, describe the range of what happened in the MSC.
There were about how many hotel rooms and so forth?
There were 66 hotel rooms.
very small you know when the building was built they had real trouble getting it air conditioned you know that was one of the first buildings air conditioner consequently the air conditioning system that was put in there was 20 years old when it got there in design and it was not adequate
The first keys to the hotel rooms were these old skeletons.
Well, Wayne had to fight tooth and toenail to get those replaced and something suitable.
The air conditioner finally gave up.
Someone sabotaged that air conditioner one time, a disgruntled employee who remained nameless.
But he was kind of unhappy and he sabotaged that thing so that it wouldn't shut off when it reached the cooling level and just kept grinding on and just froze itself up, you know, totally and just ruined the thing.
and it took us oh two or three weeks to get that straightened out right you know like in may or something and oh it was a terrible terrible thing but it was finally put on the system-wide air conditioning system but it had its own system there uh i forgot now if you
What the range was?
All the student activities, you know, going to work there was, you know, I think as far as I was concerned, you were going to work with the epitome of everything real fine as far as the university or this community was concerned.
Then, you know, the MSC opened in 1950, and we're talking just 12 years later.
It still was held in very high esteem community-wise, and working there, I count it as quite a privilege, but all the student activities and dealing with the
the town hall people, this space fiesta thing would come up, you know, every year when, you know, when it was just underway.
And the anything social, cultural, stemmed from the activities at the MSC and the whole community.
So that I thought was great.
And one of the first things I did, or he sent me off to
visit other student unions.
And I went up to the University of Maryland and stayed two or three days there.
This was in the spring of 63 and went from there to the University of Wisconsin where it was kind of the daddy of student union work was there.
And from there we went to the national conference in Chicago
of the student union thing.
So, you know, all this was a big, grand, new world to me.
And as I say, all social and cultural things that stemmed, not just A&M, but from the community, stemmed from, I think, the MSC there.
And this was, you know, great, you know.
It was beautiful to me.
Do you remember when a celebrity came to the campus, they stayed at the MSC, didn't they?
Do you remember any anecdotes related to any of those visits?
Oh, I can remember when Johnson came.
He came here for something.
He was vice president, I think.
To speak at Scona.
Was that it?
In 62.
And they, you know, their people ahead of time drove you nuts with
I remember the Johnson girls came here, I think, in association with that.
I can remember the Johnson girls being here for something, and they're being overseen by the Secret Service and whatnot.
All right, let me put on this tape then an incident that I witnessed.
Okay.
We didn't have women enrolled yet.
Linda Bird was a freshman at the University of Texas.
Skona was in December.
and the Longhorns had just massacred the Aggies on Thanksgiving here.
So the Corps commander is going to take Linda Bird to lunch in Duncan Dining Hall.
Oh, brother.
At a given signal, prearranged, every freshman in the Corps jumped up and yelled, beat the hell out of T-U, yay, yay, yay.
Oh, no.
Linda Bird then, and they all stare at her.
Linda Bird puts her napkin on the table,
stands up, the room is now stony silent.
She pushes the chair underneath, looks around the room, and then with both hands in the air, yells,
Hook them horn.
Well, bless her heart.
And they applauded.
Good.
All right.
Well, great.
I told that one day to Mrs. Johnson in 1980, right after we went to El Paso.
And when I finished, she said, that's my girl.
Well, great.
Good.
Everybody, when they got, both of them, when they got through, they all cheered and so forth.
Any other celebrity anecdotes you remember?
I can remember Peter, Paul, and Mary came here one time and almost didn't get here.
One of them was stopped by the famous Calvert police up here on their way down here, and they were to fly out of here, and one of them was afraid to fly.
I've forgotten now why, but
There was a problem with them.
John, not John Denver, John Davidson was here one time and announced his engagement, I think, from the stage of town hall.
And then there was a piano player.
What was his name?
He's well known.
But he cut his hands.
did a glissando, cut his hands.
And he, I was standing near the stage and he came off, something else was going on.
He was standing there and I had to tell him his hand was bleeding.
And then he realized there was blood all over the keyboard.
So we had to kind of stop and clean off the keyboard with his blood.
and then i'm not sure there was one of these groups where the drummer was deathly afraid of june bugs and this was before g riley white was air conditioned and we had to stop the concert then to do something to the june bugs i don't know what you can do to get rid of june bugs but we we did something but there was interesting things dealing with these people uh
Let's see, I remember Johnny Rivers came here one time and I always dealt with the, you know, the money end of it and having to settle up and write their checks and this sort of thing.
Nothing other than that you would expect, I guess, I remember.
When, or in settling, as you phrase it, settling up, when did you give them payment for a performance?
Just as soon as we determined how many tickets were sold and how many people... Was it while they were here?
Oh, yes, yes.
Do you remember any big fiscal successes and fiscal flops in terms of concert costs?
No, not really.
One, I remember we miscounted the tickets.
Johnny Rivers, I think it was, who was a big name at the time.
And we miscounted the tickets, and we came up way short on that.
But all we did was notify them, and they said, you know, there was a whole batch of tickets over here that didn't get counted that should have been a refund.
They just sent us a check for whatever we wanted.
I can remember seeing that check signed by Johnny Rivers, and I was so glad.
As you think back, what were some of the highest fees we paid in that era?
Do you remember?
$10, $12,000, which was, I think, big at the time.
Now you're talking hundreds of thousands of dollars for those things now.
$12,000 sounds big to me now, 30 years ago, nearly 40 years ago.
And I remember G. Raleigh being filled regularly.
Do you remember, were you there the night the lights went off?
Yes.
Leon Bibb?
When he in the stillness of the night he began to sing To quail what I did You know the lights went off all over the campus.
I went over to the gift shop MSC looking for candles if you remember the gift shop a lot of glass and stuff around well, I got into the building and
or had a key to the gift shop and was in there feeling for candles among all this glass and paraphernalia and was successful, came back with, I'm sure they were very expensive candles, came back over there.
By the time I got back over there, there had some semblance of lights going again.
I don't remember what it was.
Whether we use those candles or not, I don't even remember.
But it was from that concert, though, that they did install emergency battery lights so that if they ever went out again, these things would come on automatically.
Now, you're in this chief business manager task for how long, 60?
I left in 69, fall of 69, became the payroll manager for the Manium System at the time there.
All right, during those years that you were working on the campus, what was A&M doing right?
What were the decisions that in hindsight looked like?
What were they doing right?
Yeah.
And then later I'm going to ask, were there any that we, where we made a mistake or there were some that we passed by?
Like we coeducated during that women?
Yes.
During 1960, we did three things.
Of course, we racially integrated women and changed the name all within, what, mid-60s there, within almost a few months, certainly within a year of each other.
What did you and your colleagues think about those changes?
Oh, great, great.
Because in the racial thing,
you know, we had groups come in from off campus and I remember Ann Keel spent time determining, you know, were there any blacks involved with this group and if so, we had to handle this thing a certain way.
So that just did away with that.
We had our own black dining room downstairs and then in the minute that was just done away with immediately.
Do you remember any incidents?
from integration?
I don't.
We remembered someone was on the way here one time.
We got word they'd cause some trouble like over at Temple or somewhere.
They never got here.
I do remember Dr. Evans who was president of Prairie View.
Do you remember him?
He would come up and meet with the board and there was always special handling and they would try to get him to
And he wouldn't.
He would always separate himself from the other group, some way or another.
But yet here he was, you know, a marvelously educated, wonderful person.
But he always,
did not want to infringe upon uh this situation and he he didn't but as far as anything else we never experienced anything all right well and i'm particularly asking now once black students came do you remember any incidents in the hallways or anything
I'm sure they occurred.
But I never heard of any.
But I was never aware of anything.
All right, then with co-education.
Oh, now that was a problem.
See, there were no facilities.
There were no women's restrooms on the, at the MSC.
But, you know, academic building, there were no women's restrooms over there, nowhere.
How easily were you all able to involve women in the MSC activities?
Really, that came after I left.
The bulk of that occurred after 69, and I can't really respond to that.
I'm still trying to think of what did A&M do right in this whole period of time.
I'm not sure I can answer that.
What did you and your colleagues think about the name change?
Oh, I thought it was great.
I mean, it's so much easier.
I mean, you spell agricultural and the mechanical college of Texas at College Station, Texas.
I mean, that's a mouthful.
You know, it took extra room.
And even the school system was the A&M consolidated independent school district of College Station at Texas.
You know, you wore out your typewriter trying to get to the end of it.
Mr. Rutter, in my last conversation with him,
before his, what turned out to be his fatal illness.
I was over there as chairman of the library committee trying to get more money, and his first response was, do you think the students have read all the books they've already got?
I can see him saying that.
And then we started talking about those changes, and he said if you guys had recommended the name LSU has, it would have been approved.
What was that?
And I said, you mean Louisiana State University?
They've got that.
And he said, no, no, no.
If you all had recommended Texas State University and Agricultural Mechanical College, he said, that's the official name of the school at Baton Rouge.
You're kidding.
No, I didn't know.
How awful that is.
Well, he said, then we could have still, us old timers, could have still talked about being at A&M.
And you youngsters could be at Texas State or whatever you wanted to call it.
And he said it would have sailed right through.
I never even heard that.
I never did either.
When I interviewed Wayne Hall the other day, he said that he thought he was the one, he, Wayne, was the one who came up with the idea of just using the A and M. Without the periods.
Without the periods and without the A and D. And that Mr. Rudder liked that.
He said that Mr. Rudder, in fact, he thought had more trouble accepting the name change
than any of the other changes.
Really?
Yeah.
When it finally came down to it, he thought that, and I wasn't aware of that, and I've run into a few other people of that generation
who didn't want to lose those magic initials A and M. Well, but they didn't.
No, no.
That's why the name change that we have, that they would accept it.
I thought it was a clever transition.
I did, too.
I did, too, in hindsight.
And I tell people that when I read the paper and I read UCLA, my brain doesn't say University of California at Los Angeles.
Or when I see a grocery product,
like AT&T.
I don't translate that.
That's just those initials are the name.
And so A&M to me is, now I don't, I type TAMU, but I don't say TAMU.
I say A&M.
Yeah.
Well, I do too.
Can you think of any opportunities that you recall A&M and or the MSC or any other part of the school had in the 60s that we did not utilize?
Oh, goodness.
You know, in my mind, I can think there must have been zillions of them, but to come up with something now 40 years later here, you know, I guess we were dealing, and it was 10 years behind in its growth pattern, at least 10 years, I guess, wasn't it?
And there have been bound to have been, of course, I guess it was the girl thing that probably was the key thing there more than anything.
On that Aspirations Committee where I served, and I was the draft, I wrote the report, Bart Nelson supervised a questionnaire every high school junior and senior between Conroe and East Dallas, 32 counties.
We found a direct correlation between the higher of the students' grades
and the lower the student's interest in going to an all-male or an all-female school.
They want to go to a co-ed school.
The higher the student's grades, the lower the student's interest in anything compulsory.
Don't tell me I've got to be in the Corps.
I'm in the top 10% of my class.
I want to choose one.
That's still true.
Sure.
And we also found that the average student didn't know that A&M offered anything other than agriculture, engineering, and veterinary medicine.
And as one kid, I always use this one, he summarized it well in his report, his questionnaire.
He said, no girls, no fraternity, no fun, no way.
And they thought College Station was a quiet, dreary, which wasn't too far from the truth.
Now, we realize College Station and Bryan are in the middle of the big population triangle.
Yes, sir.
We're nicely located.
Let's see.
When you would work with Mr. Rutter and his staff, would he be open to a new idea?
Would he listen?
He always listens.
and analyze it, I think, pretty thoroughly.
Probably wouldn't respond immediately.
He'd come back later with something.
He'd check with other people.
But I always listened.
I think was an excellent listener and would relate.
I don't think you went away disappointed.
You would understand his viewpoint when you got through.
Did he have any pet peeves, any pet ideas that everybody needed to be careful about?
If somebody didn't act right, I mean, when you see stuff going on up there now that people turn their eyes and ears to,
Earl would not have tolerated it at all if he became aware of it.
Of course, you can't do that now.
I mean, legally, you'd get shot or murdered.
All right, if you all wanted to be sure that the proposal was well received, who were the key staff members around Mr. Rutter that you checked with?
Goodness.
Of course, it was always, when I was there, Tom Cherry was,
Financially.
Financially, idea-wise.
Like, did y'all check with Ed Cooper?
Did you check with Dorsey McCrory, with Dean Hannigan?
Now, I only kind of see, we're preceding these people.
My period is preceding them.
Ed came in later, so did Dorsey McCrory.
I was in a meeting one time and speaking of Dorsey McCrory in the Koch building and had to do with the, I guess the design and concept of the new MSC.
I was on, or at least met with, I don't know if it was on the committee, but I met with, but I can remember the first time that Dorsey McCrory became aware of the fact that he was going to be in the tower over there.
And Mr. Rudder told him in this, you know, just someone sitting there talking,
And Dorsey didn't take to that, because then this tower was, you know, what is that thing over there, you know?
And he didn't take to it too well.
And I can remember another meeting we had, Don Jarvis was talking about, you know, these concepts and things, and the first mention of a fountain.
And here, you know, Earl Rudder and Wes Donaldson and all the people were in this meeting, quite a good size room in that old boardroom in the system building.
You know, you can just see this going around the room.
Going around the room.
Well, there it is.
It's there now.
And it was Sterling Evans who got the tower built.
Jarvis came with a plan pretty well, a bulky plan.
you know two or three or four stories maybe spread out but Sterling had been up east somewhere and he'd seen a tower somewhere and he came back and he thought we ought to have a tower so back to the drawing board Don went and that's
how the tower got there.
It was through Sterling's suggestion.
And I remember at one of those meetings, Ed Romanek raising the issue that that project did not have as part of its task designing parking facility or anything for the people that would use it.
That was not part of the... And he was bright in thinking of that, too.
That was not originally, nobody originally said, and keep that in mind.
All right, let's see, on three or four more things.
We've talked about any missed opportunities.
Well, I didn't name you any, I can't, other than just...
not grasping to the things that they ultimately did, you know, they were slow.
And be thinking about, when we get this rough draft back to you, about any anecdotes that will help to give examples of, whether it's student good bull or something that just doesn't work out.
Okay, that would be very precious.
I know I'll come up with something.
What are the events, the activities, that tie almost every
A&M person together, regardless of their class, year, their major, their, what are the events?
You mean even now?
Yeah, even now.
Well, sports, certainly.
Okay.
Of course, the Association of Former Students, the relationship there.
Specific events, though.
Specific events during the year.
graduation, of course the muster.
Okay, that's the kind of thing I'm thinking about.
What is there about our commencements that warm their hearts more than some other schools?
fact that they have them and that they call every name and shake every hand yeah now how long are we going to do this though i can hope we do it forever well i can see this waning though because i fear you're correct uh i like the idea but now the only other
graduation ceremonies I will go to, maybe my grandchildren, you know, to sit there that whole time is real tough, real tough.
Am I correct though?